add Sec-CH-Prefers-Reduced-Motion content (#22243)
mdn/content: files/en-us/web/http/headers/sec-ch-prefers-reduced-motion/index.md

---
title: Sec-CH-Prefers-Reduced-Motion
slug: Web/HTTP/Headers/Sec-CH-Prefers-Reduced-Motion
tags:
  - Sec-CH-Prefers-Reduced-Motion
  - Client hint
  - HTTP
  - HTTP Header
  - Reference
  - Request header
  - Experimental
browser-compat: http.headers.Sec-CH-Prefers-Reduced-Motion
---

{{HTTPSidebar}}{{SeeCompatTable}}{{SecureContext_Header}}

> The **`Sec-CH-Prefers-Reduced-Motion`** [user agent client hint](/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Client_hints#user-agent_client_hints) request header provides the user agent's reduced motion preference setting.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The **`Sec-CH-Prefers-Reduced-Motion`** [user agent client hint](/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Client_hints#user-agent_client_hints) request header provides the user agent's reduced motion preference, typically (but not necessarily) reflecting the operating system's corresponding setting.
```

> If a server declares to a client via the {{httpheader("Accept-CH")}} header that it accepts `Sec-CH-Prefers-Reduced-Motion`, the client can then respond with this header to indicate the user's preference for reduced motion. The server can send the client appropriate CSS to reduce the motion of any animations presented on subsequent rendered content.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If a server declares to a client via the {{httpheader("Accept-CH")}} header that it accepts `Sec-CH-Prefers-Reduced-Motion`, the client then responds with this header to indicate the user's preference for reduced motion. The server can send the client appropriately adapted content, for example, CSS to reduce the motion of any animations presented on subsequent rendered content.
```

This header is modeled on the {{cssxref("@media/prefers-reduced-motion", "prefers-reduced-motion")}} media query.

<table class="properties">
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <th scope="row">Header type</th>
      <td>
        {{Glossary("Request header")}},
        <a href="/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Client_hints">Client hint</a>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <th scope="row">{{Glossary("Forbidden header name")}}</th>
      <td>yes</td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

## Syntax

```http
Sec-CH-Prefers-Reduced-Motion: <preference>
```

### Directives

- `<preference>`

  - : The user agent's preference for reduced-motion animations, which is often taken from the underlying operating system's setting. The value of this directive can be either `no-preference` or `reduce`.

## Examples

The client makes an initial request to the server:

```http
GET / HTTP/1.1
Host: example.com
```

The server responds, telling the client via {{httpheader("Accept-CH")}} that it accepts `Sec-CH-Prefers-Reduced-Motion`:

```http
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Content-Type: text/html
Accept-CH: Sec-CH-Prefers-Reduced-Motion
```

> The client then retries the request, telling the server via `Sec-CH-Prefers-Reduced-Motion` that it has a user preference for reduced-motion animations.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The client in future requests then tells the server via `Sec-CH-Prefers-Reduced-Motion` that it has a user preference for reduced-motion animations.
```

The retry flow only happens if the header is marked as a critical client hint; see https://web.dev/user-preference-media-features-headers/#how-it-works for a full example. You might want to note this aspect.

Reviewer 2: This is still confusing. Probably because it is different than other cases - or at least how this was about 9 months ago (last time I worked on a client hint).

I _think_ there are now three options for hints
1. "Normal": Server set Accept-CH for headers it works with. Client responds with the Sec-CH headers it is interested in sending them for all future requests. These are sent until end of browser session unless new set of Accept-CH is sent
2. "Low entropy hints": sent by User agent all the time if they are interested in them, without Accept-CH.
3. Critical hints: Monitor Critical-CH and Accept-CH in response. If these don't match the values you sent for your Sec-CH in the last request then "retry".
   - I assume "retry" means "throw away the response" and send the request again as though it were the first request?
   - I assume that IF there is a match then you can continue to just resend the same as a normal hint in subsequent requests (or at least that is what the spec infers).

So what you say now is:

> The client then retries the request, telling the server via `Sec-CH-Prefers-Reduced-Motion` that it has a user preference for reduced-motion animations.

1. But what you have marked as critical is "`Critical-CH: Sec-CH-Prefers-Color-Scheme`" - i.e. the color scheme, not the reduced preference. My interpretation of the spec is that you WILL retry the request because you didn't send Sec-CH-Prefers-Color-Scheme in the initial request. This is confusing because you'll be retrying it for the `Sec-CH-Prefers-Color-Scheme`, and only incidentally sending the updated `Sec-CH-Prefers-Reduced-Motion`. Make sense? It's not wrong - it's just that you really don't need to have the retry to demonstrate Sec-CH-Prefers-Reduced-Motion unless it is critical.
2. It isn't clear which of these need to be critical.
3. The spec says that whatever appears in Critical-CH MUST appear in Accept-CH. So there is a header mismatch
4. IF this hint does not always have to be critical (i.e. there is no "critical header hint set" in the same way as there are low entropy hints) there is a another flow where the message is sent as normal. I think we need to consider both cases. For example, you do your retry here then I would expect some info about subsequent requests including the same header until Xxxxx (where Xxxx is probably the set of Critical-CH changing).

Reviewer 2: PS I might do this as two examples. One with Sec-CH-Prefers-Reduced-Motion as the critical header (swapping them over), and one with no critical headers. Depends a bit on how the set of critical headers is defined, and whether `Sec-CH-Prefers-Reduced-Motion` is likely to always be one.

Author: See updated text. I think this is less confusing now. `Sec-CH-Prefers-Color-Scheme` was a typo, and I've now updated it to `Sec-CH-Prefers-Reduced-Motion`

Reviewer 2: Yes it is. Thanks.

---
title: Sec-CH-Prefers-Reduced-Motion
slug: Web/HTTP/Headers/Sec-CH-Prefers-Reduced-Motion
tags:
  - Sec-CH-Prefers-Reduced-Motion
  - Client hint
  - HTTP
  - HTTP Header
  - Reference
  - Request header
  - Experimental
browser-compat: http.headers.Sec-CH-Prefers-Reduced-Motion
---

{{HTTPSidebar}}{{SeeCompatTable}}{{SecureContext_Header}}

> The **`Sec-CH-Prefers-Reduced-Motion`** [user agent client hint](/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Client_hints#user-agent_client_hints) request header provides the user agent's reduced motion preference, typically (but not necessarily) reflecting the operating system's corresponding setting.

Reviewer 2: I like docs such that you only need to read the first sentence to know whether the topic is relevant.
- Can we clarify that this is related specifically to animations - CSS and JavaScript. 
- It would also be great (if possible) if we could characterise motion - e.g. are we talking speed, or amplitude, or just "how frenetic/lazy it is"?
-  Bonus points if you can explain why we care about this - I assume it is for accessibility? Ideally in first paragraph, but OK in description somewhere.

Possibly this - defining reduced motion in terms of the affects it has for accessibility. 

```suggestion
The **`Sec-CH-Prefers-Reduced-Motion`** [user agent client hint](/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Client_hints#user-agent_client_hints) request header indicates the user agent's preference for animations to be displayed with a reduced motion.

This is intended to allow the server to provide accessible content for users affected by rapid motion, including those for which rapid visual effects may trigger seizures.
Typically (but not necessarily) this preference reflects a correpsonding setting in the  operating system.
```

Author: OK, added clarifications in my next commit; I don't want to say too much, as there are more details available on the prefers-reduced-motion page that is linked, but yeah, good to clarify.

This header is modeled on the {{cssxref("@media/prefers-reduced-motion", "prefers-reduced-motion")}} media query.

<table class="properties">
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <th scope="row">Header type</th>
      <td>
        {{Glossary("Request header")}},
        <a href="/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Client_hints">Client hint</a>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <th scope="row">{{Glossary("Forbidden header name")}}</th>
      <td>yes</td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

## Syntax

```http
Sec-CH-Prefers-Reduced-Motion: <preference>
```

### Directives

- `<preference>`

  - : The user agent's preference for reduced-motion animations, which is often taken from the underlying operating system's setting. The value of this directive can be either `no-preference` or `reduce`.

## Examples

The client makes an initial request to the server:

```http
GET / HTTP/1.1
Host: example.com
```

> The server responds, telling the client via {{httpheader("Accept-CH")}} and {{httpheader("Critical-CH")}} that it accepts `Sec-CH-Prefers-Reduced-Motion` and considers it a critical client hint:

Reviewer 2: Critical client hint is a new one on me. Can we add a definition of that to "Client_hints" doc? If not, consider omitting it here - it isn't "necessary" to the example.

Author: I have updated the text to clarify that `Critical-CH` is not mandatory, and that specifying it is what caused the browser to automatically retry to request with `Sec-CH-Prefers-Reduced-Motion`. I've also added a small section about it in the Client_hints doc.

> The server responds, telling the client via {{httpheader("Accept-CH")}} that it accepts `Sec-CH-Prefers-Reduced-Motion`. {{httpheader("Critical-CH")}} is also used in this case to specify that `Sec-CH-Prefers-Reduced-Motion` is considered a critical client hint:

Reviewer 2: Note, I link to critical client hint docs - but I have used a different anchor URL - proposing to change that too:

```suggestion
The server responds, telling the client via {{httpheader("Accept-CH")}} that it accepts `Sec-CH-Prefers-Reduced-Motion`. In this example {{httpheader("Critical-CH")}} is also used, indicating that `Sec-CH-Prefers-Reduced-Motion` is considered a [critical client hint](/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Client_hints#critical_client_hints):
```

```http
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Content-Type: text/html
Accept-CH: Sec-CH-Prefers-Reduced-Motion
Critical-CH: Sec-CH-Prefers-Reduced-Motion
```

The client automatically retries the request (due to `Critical-CH` being specified above), telling the server via `Sec-CH-Prefers-Reduced-Motion` that it has a user preference for reduced-motion animations.

```http
GET / HTTP/1.1
Host: example.com
Sec-CH-Prefers-Reduced-Motion: "reduce"
```

> 

Reviewer 2: What happens in subsequent requests? Something like 

```suggestion

The client will include the header in subsequent requests in the current session, unless the `Accept-CH` changes in responses to indicate that it is no longer supported by the server.

```

<table class="properties">
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <th scope="row">Header type</th>
      <td>
        {{Glossary("Request header")}},
        <a href="/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Client_hints">Client hint</a>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <th scope="row">{{Glossary("Forbidden header name")}}</th>
      <td>yes</td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

## Syntax

```http
Sec-CH-Prefers-Reduced-Motion: <preference>
```

### Directives

- `<preference>`

  - : The user agent's preference for reduced-motion animations. This is often taken from the underlying operating system's setting. The value of this directive can be either `no-preference` or `reduce`.

## Examples

The client makes an initial request to the server:

```http
GET / HTTP/1.1
Host: example.com
```

The server responds, telling the client via {{httpheader("Accept-CH")}} that it accepts `Sec-CH-Prefers-Reduced-Motion`. In this example {{httpheader("Critical-CH")}} is also used, indicating that `Sec-CH-Prefers-Reduced-Motion` is considered a [critical client hint](/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Client_hints#critical_client_hints).

```http
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Content-Type: text/html
Accept-CH: Sec-CH-Prefers-Reduced-Motion

> Vary: Sec-CH-Prefers-Color-Scheme

Reviewer 3: I'm not sure, but perhaps this was meant to be `Sec-CH-Prefers-Reduced-Motion` instead of `Sec-CH-Prefers-Color-Scheme`?

Reviewer 3: Specifically, line 70 says:
> We've also specified `Sec-CH-Prefers-Reduced-Motion` in the {{httpheader("Vary")}} header

Author: @bershanskiy yup, you are right ;-)

I've submitted https://github.com/mdn/content/pull/22424 to fix it.
